A simple program to examine the MS-DOS stub of a Windows executable and identify
the "flavor" of stub used.

Explanation:

  For as long as Windows has existed there has been for it's programs an alternative
  EXE header that exists separate from MS-DOS, by design. Unfortunately MS-DOS does
  not know how to read this header, and the code contained within it is foreign to it.
  Also, an unknowing user might attempt to run it from DOS not knowing that Windows
  is required, and DOS would likely run it directly as if a raw binary image (.COM
  executable). So to be user-friendly and at least provide a safe fallback, each
  Windows executable has an MS-DOS "stub" program attached. In fact, by design of
  the Windows EXE header, this stub (or some sort of MS-DOS facimile) is required.

  You will have likely seen this stub in a hex editor as the code at the very
  beginning of an EXE with the text "This program requires Microsoft Windows".
  If you dropped into MS-DOS mode and ran the program, that is what would appear
  on the screen, and you would be immediately dropped back to the DOS prompt.

  The only exception to this rule are Windows programs that were explicitly compiled
  with instructions given to the linker to use an "alternative stub". This
  alternative stub was likely an alternate DOS version for use in DOS when Windows
  was not available.


There apparently exist several variations, in which the code or text changes
slightly over time. This can be used to possibly identify the environment or
compiler used to create the application.

Many EXE files made on or prior to 1992-1993, or linked/compiled using MSVC++ 1.5
will have "This program requires Microsoft Windows". EXEs made after this period
will more likely have "This program cannot be run in DOS mode" as this is the
more common stub code used by the 32-bit compilers since MSVC++ 2.0. These are
the two most likely stubs you will find in Windows EXE files.

There do exist other variations though. EXEs compiled on Far Eastern
DOS/Windows 3.1 systems will have "This program requires Microsoft Windows"
in Big5 or ShiftJIS (a virtual 3D golf game in the Microsoft Entertainment Pack
has this stub code if I recall correctly).
